### <b>An integrated proteogenomics data analysis platform for long-read RNA-Seq datasets</b>

<br>
  
  <p align="justify"> A typical proteomics analysis requires reference proteome databases. Standard proteome databases provided by UniProt, NCBI RefSeq or GENCODE are used as reference by global proteomics community. 
  
There are some caveats of using these databases which are as follows: 
  
1) The proteins missing in the databases will not be detected
2) There are several indistinguishable peptides that are assigned to multiple proteins
3) The transcript information is missing
4) Several false positive identification
  
Proteogenomics is a widely used technique that integrates genomics to create custom proteome databases based on expressed transcripts. It enables accurate detection of proteins present in the cells at a given time. Alternative splicing is a conserved eukaryotic gene expression mechanism that allows a single gene to generate multiple copies of mRNA, thereby producing diverse protein isoforms with distinct functions. Ribosome profiling and proteomics studies have reported several functional proteins encoded by lncRNAs, demonstrating their roles in DNA repair, development, muscle function and cancer biology. This suggests that reference catalogs of protein-coding genes are not comprehensive. Conventionally, short-read RNA-Seq has been employed to generate customized proteome databases. However, its accuracy is hindered by the short length of reads, leading to inaccurate transcript assembly. Advancements in long-read sequencing techniques have made it possible to sequence full-length transcripts, thereby enabling precise detection of transcripts expressed in the cell. Considering this advantage of long-read RNA-Seq data, we have developed a GUI-based workflow that processes long-read RNA-Seq data generated by PacBio and Oxford Nanopore platforms and generates a reference proteome database. The intuitive annotations provided in the sequence headers makes it suitable for downstream proteomics analysis. Our second module provides visualization of identified peptides at the genome scale. An easy-to-use interface of GenomeProt can be executed by researchers with no bioinformatics expertise or without any specific requirement of computational resources. We believe our tool can serve as a great resource for the global proteomic community. 

</p>
